#summary Qwired protocol extensions (Version 3)
#labels Phase-Implementation

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

= Introduction =
Qwired provides a number of additional features, and therefore requires a number of additional commands.

This specification effectively extends the [QwiredProtocolVersion11 Qwired Protocol 1.1].

= Protocol Parameters =
== Privilege Specifications ==
Privilege specifications are sent in the following format:

  * privileges
    # get-user-info FS 
    # broadcast FS 
    # post-news FS 
    # clear-news FS
    # download FS
    # upload FS
    # upload-anywhere FS
    # create-folders FS 
    # alter-files FS
    # delete-files FS 
    # view-dropboxes FS
    # create-accounts FS 
    # edit-accounts FS
    # delete-accounts FS 
    # elevate-privileges FS
    # kick-users FS 
    # ban-users FS
    # cannot-be-kicked FS 
    # download-speed FS
    # upload-speed FS
    # download-limit FS
    # upload-limit FS
    # change-topic FS
    # *server-console*

  * get-user-info         = BOOLEAN
  * broadcast             = BOOLEAN
  * post-news             = BOOLEAN
  * clear-news            = BOOLEAN
  * download              = BOOLEAN
  * upload                = BOOLEAN
  * upload-anywhere       = BOOLEAN
  * create-folders        = BOOLEAN
  * alter-files           = BOOLEAN
  * delete-files          = BOOLEAN
  * view-dropboxes        = BOOLEAN
  * create-accounts       = BOOLEAN
  * edit-accounts         = BOOLEAN
  * delete-accounts       = BOOLEAN
  * elevate-privileges    = BOOLEAN
  * kick-users            = BOOLEAN
  * ban-users             = BOOLEAN
  * cannot-be-kicked      = BOOLEAN
  * download-speed        = 1*DIGIT
  * upload-speed          = 1*DIGIT
  * download-limit        = 1*DIGIT   ; Protocol 1.1
  * upload-limit          = 1*DIGIT   ; Protocol 1.1
  * change-topic          = BOOLEAN   ; Protocol 1.1
  * *server-console        = BOOLEAN   ; Protocol 3.0*

This is a series of boolean values, indicating whether a user can or cannot perform certain commands.

See section 5 for more information on accounts. See section 4 for more information on the file related privileges.

= Commands =
== Command Listing ==

=== ABORT ===
`"ABORT" SP tid EOT`

  * tid = STRING
 
Abort a running or server-queued file transfer.

On failure, may return the error 516.

Subject to _server-console_ privilege.

=== CONFIGSET ===
`"CONFIGSET" SP key FS value EOT`

  * key = STRING
  * value = BASE64
 
Set a configuration parameter in the database.

On failure, may return the error 516.

Subject to _server-console_ privilege.

=== CONFIGGET ===
`"CONFIGGET" SP key EOT`

  * key = STRING
 
Read a configuration parameter in the database.

On failure, may return the error 516, on success returns a 815 Configuration Value message.

Subject to _server-console_ privilege.

=== LOG ===
`"LOG" SP enable EOT`

  * enable = BOOL
 
Enable real-time transmission of log messages to the client.

On failure, may return the error 516, or begins transmission of 800 Log Message messages.

Subject to _server-console_ privilege.

=== REINDEX ===
`"REINDEX" EOT`
 
Re-Index the files database.

On failure, may return the error 516.

Subject to _server-console_ privilege.

=== STATISTICS ===
`"STATISTICS" EOT`
 
Request server statistics.

On failure, may return the error 516; on success a 814 Server Statistics message.

Subject to _server-console_ privilege.

=== TRANSFERS ===
`"TRANSFERS" EOT`
 
Get a list of active file transfers on the server.

On failure, may return the error 516; on success a list of 810 Transfer List and a final 811 Transfer List Done message.

Subject to _server-console_ privilege.

= Messages =

== 800 Class Messages ==

=== 800 Log Message ===
`"800" SP timestamp FS type FS origin FS text EOT`

  * timestamp = date-time
  * type = STRING
  * origin = STRING
  * text = STRING

A server log message has been emitted by _origin_, a string that identifies the source of the information (server core, user, etc.). _text_ contains the information about the event. _type_ defines the type of the message, which can be "INFO", "WARN", "FATAL" or "DEBUG".

This message is subject to the _LOG_ command.

=== 810 Transfer List ===
`"810" SP status FS tid FS type FS user FS path FS done FS total FS speed EOT`

  * status = 1*DIGIT
  * tid = STRING
  * type = 1*DIGIT
  * user = ID
  * path = STRING
  * done = 1*DIGIT
  * total = 1*DIGIT
  * speed = 1*DIGIT

Specifies a single active or queued transfer on the server. _status_ indicates the status of the transfer where 0 indicates a server-queued transfer, and 1 indicates a running transfer. _tid_ is a unique UUID for the specific transfer. __type__ is the type of transfer, where 0 indicates a download (to the client), and 1 indicates an upload (to the server). _path_ is the file (on the server file system) being transferred. _done_, _total_ and _speed_ define the amount of bytes already transferred, to be transferred and being transferred per second.

In response to `TRANSFERS`.

=== 811 Transfer List Done ===
`"811" SP "Done" EOT`

End of the transfer list.

In response to `TRANSFERS`.


=== 814 Server Statistics ===
`"814" SP users FS transfers FS uploads-speed FS downloads-speed FS total-sent FS total-received EOT`

  * users = 1*DIGIT
  * transfers = 1*DIGIT
  * uploads-speed = 1*DIGIT
  * downloads-speed = 1*DIGIT
  * total-sent = 1*DIGIT
  * total-received = 1*DIGIT

In response to `STATISTICS`.


=== 815 Configuration Value ===
`"815" SP key FS value EOT`

  * key = STRING
  * value = BASE64

In response to `CONFIGGET`.